Here's another test for you and maybe something that you've been asking yourself throughout these past
couple of videos.
If we have to do all this interpretation and compiling on the language why not just use machine code
from the beginning.
Why don't all programs just use machine code ahead of time.
We compile our code let's say javascript and then we just give our Web sites our machine code so they
don't have to worry about all this compiler interpretation and git compiling.
What do you think the answer to that is.
Take a second here pause the video and see if I can answer this yourself to test your comprehension.
All right you ready for this.
You see if javascript were compile then either compilation would have to be super fast because remember
our JavaScript files get sent from the server to the browser.
So the compiling has to happen on the browser or the competing browsers that is Firefox.
Microsoft Edge chrome browsers would have to agree on some binary executable format or standard that
can understand this machine code because at the end of the day these browsers are the ones that are
executing the code.
Now when javascript was created in nineteen ninety five that's the start of the browser wars where browsers
are competing against each other.
So compiling the code ahead of time or even just compiling the code on the browser was not feasible
at all because back in the day that was really really slow.
But also having all the browsers agree on an executable format to run javascript.
Well they didn't get a launch so that was going to happen.
Even now browsers have different ways of doing things and there's just no real standard but luckily
enough things might change in the future.
We now have something called Web assembly and something that you should really keep an eye on because
this could be a game changer in the future.
We have the standard binary executable format called Web assembly and this is what we didn't have in
nineteen ninety five we didn't have the competing browsers agreeing on this format where we can compiler
code all the way down to web assembly.
This executable format so that it runs really really fast on the browser instead of having to go through
that entire JavaScript engine process.
So keep an eye on web assembly but I hope.
Now if you've heard about web assembly and you're curious what it is that's the big advantage of it.
We might not have to do all these interpreter compiler and all the steps that JavaScript requires to
actually run the code on the browser.
All right I'll see you in the next one.
By.